Take a look at all of them.
It's tossed away and makes us sick.
Restaurants too.
And then so many hungry people.
But anyway, so Christmas then was a big celebration for the family and it was a big family and a social event.
Yes.
There were several during the course of the year.
Thanksgiving was always big.
The whole, not only our own family, but generally we would meet at grandfather's.
And there you would have the turkey or chicken.
all of the dressings and everything that went with it, all of the grandchildren from the three branches because Uncle Oscar never married, so it'd be Ned and my aunt Clara, her family and our family.
Also on such occasions
Three times a year, I think, he used to do this.
Grandfather was a firm believer in silver.
He didn't like the paper money.
Oh, he didn't?
And so at the Christmas, or at the Thanksgiving dinner, and also at Christmas, and Fourth of July, each grandchild got a big silver dollar.
Might get something else, but always a silver dollar from grandfather.
He didn't believe in that paper stuff.
No, no.
No confidence in them.
So those were the three big ones, Christmas, Thanksgiving, and Fourth of July.
Fourth of July.
Why not Easter?
Well, at the church this was big, but it didn't get to be a family reunion of the same thing.
Always at church and generally
there were, it was an important event for obvious reasons.
Well, it's interesting that two of these are national holidays and one's a religious holiday.
I suppose this was grandfathered in part.
I don't know how it came about, but that was the custom.
Did you consider your grandfather or your parents patriotic people?
Yes, both grandparents and
Do you have any examples?
Can you ever think back?
Well, for example, they always voted.
This is one thing.
Even with the problems of getting to the voting place in those times, this was difficult to do.
They used to take it upon themselves to vote.
Now, they didn't seem to be that directly involved
Although I don't remember too much about this in the local school elections.
You know, you used to have a school board.
They were interested, but I don't remember specifically that they were involved.
Your father didn't go into World War I, did he?
He was probably too old for that.
No, he didn't go into World War I. Your grandfather was probably too old for a Spanish-American one.
Right.
My grandfather would have been, let's see, in World War I. He would have been 31 or somewhere.
Yeah, that's too old.
Another issue, of course.
One of my uncles was involved, the husband-to-be of my aunt, the Clara Bordo.
Another issue right around this time was, of course, immigration restriction.
And a number of farmers were quite eager for immigration restriction to keep, you know, aliens from buying land.
We never heard her.
I don't remember anything about this.
Oh, good.
No, I never heard anything about this.
So that wasn't a good concern to them as far as they are concerned?
No.
I think it might be interesting to show
a traditional Thai even that late, and the second would have been the third generation.
During summer, at least two summers that I remember, maybe three, in the rural country school, there would be six weeks or eight weeks of Norwegian school, where some young seminary student would come and give Norwegian
And in this little Lutheran church, from my earliest recollection, there were always two sermons.
The first one was in Norwegian, and the second one was in English.
Then, as the elderly passed on, by the time I was probably 12 or 13, it was the other way around.
The first sermon was in English, and the second was a short one in Norwegian for the few elderly who were still there.
All of them spoke English, but they were more, they were obviously more comfortable in Norwegian.
That's really interesting because my parents are on my mother's side, who are from Germany,
And right around the time of World War I, they outlawed speaking German in the house.
I mean, they just wanted to become American.
So it's interesting that the Norwegians wanted to continue with their language, while a number of German, and they were second generation, wanted to drop it as fast as possible to prove that they were Americans.
See, I was the third generation, and I still caught the tail end of that.
Sure.
I didn't learn Norwegian.
My grandfather used to speak to me, and I could understand perfectly well then in listening to the sermons.
But once I left for college, I forgot it all, unfortunately.
My grandfather always used to say, someday you'll regret that you never worked hard enough to make it a part of you.
He was a pretty visionary guy in this sense.
Kind of unusual.
You might be interested that...
in this rural school, there were two different groups that came to this school.
The Norwegian community was bounded on the east by Bohemian community.
They came from the province of Bohemia.
They didn't like to be called Czechs.
They were proud to be called Bohemians.
And many of those children would arrive.
I think they came
one generation later.
When they would arrive at country school, they couldn't speak any English.
They picked it up pretty fast.
Just German?
Just Bohemian.
Really?
Which is a dialect in German?
I expect it is.
Between German and Czech?
I think it's closer to Czech.
Yeah, it's Czech.
And as a result, when I was young also, I knew quite a few Czech words.
And the village, not a railroad town, but the one of several hundred, maybe a thousand, only about six miles from there was Protivan.
And then another five miles beyond, in the center of a more bohemian Czechoslovak community, was Spilville.
And that was where the Vashak spent one summer when he was director, when he was with the New York Symphony, where he wrote part of the New World Symphony.
in that little village of Spilwell, which was only about 11 miles from home, but in the Bohemian or Czech community.
I was wondering if you ever remember or ever remember your father telling you about conflict between the different nationalities in this very ethnic America back at the turn of the century.
It was even...
during my generation.
There was no conflict except when it came to cross marriages between Catholicism and Lutheranism.
Then you used to see it.
Now of course this is passed from being pretty largely, but it was still pretty strong.
We used to associate all the time.
I learned to
dance the polka and learn to dance over in those Bohemian communities, and then spill them, and we all used to go to these, both communities, both the Norwegian and the Czechs.
I suppose that there were Norwegian and Czech jokes, weren't there?
Oh, yes.
Just like today, I've been reading those Minnesota and Iowa jokes.
Yeah.
Socializing, though, with the other nationalities, the only problem was the religion.
The marriage.
Not even the religion.
They could talk and even talk about religion.
There didn't seem to be any conflict there, but when it come to intermarriage, it was still there.
Did you ever see it?
Did you see any of this?
No, because I lived in Minneapolis.
Yeah, well you wouldn't see it.
You don't see it after.
Were there very many marriages then, or very few?
Probably very few.
Very few.
I suppose I, I don't know, maybe I had one or two cousins.
of mine that intermarried with Catholics.
Maybe there were more, but that's the ones I remember.
Let's go back and talk a little bit about the character of your father again.
You said that he was a disciplinarian and that he liked order, and he also was very responsible.
Were there other attributes that he had?
When I say he was a disciplinarian, never with a loud voice.
You just respected what he said.
He wasn't the type of disciplinarian that had to physically punish his children.
I never remembered having my father or mother, either one, put a hand on me.
I'm sure that I got slapped sometime when I was young, but I don't remember.
Or for that matter, my grandfather.
I don't remember any of them.
doing this.
So the type of punishment was a reason.
And if you got into trouble, I seldom did, but in country school you had your parents stuff deal with which was probably worse.
For example, I used to run a trap line before school, skunk, muskrat, mink.
make a lot of money.
I remember two days in a row I got sent home from school.
I'd wash up when I come back, skunk.
I thought I got myself all cleaned off and go to school and the room started getting warm.
You know it's hard to get that stuff off.
Then I got sent home.
The first day dad didn't say much.
The second day he said, look Norman,
You're going to have to do one or the other.
You're going to have to go to school or quit trapping or quit trapping for skunk.
I guess I didn't catch any more skunk that year.
I don't know.
Maybe my luck ran out, or maybe I didn't catch the harvest of the skunk's glands.
One other thing that I remember a little later
I think gives the spirit of the community.
The summer threshing or harvesting crews, not just threshing, especially the threshing.
You know at that time we had binders.
Ours was mostly oats, not wheat.
It was oats sown to red clover.
then after a year of hay and red clover go to corn and then back.
And oats was the small grain crop.
We used to, of course, run the binders and then shock it.
Then the thrashing machine owned by one person who would do the thrashing for the whole community.
And the crew would be eight teams and
bundle wagons and the people to handle the horses, and two or three extra people to load them up a little faster from the field.
The person that ran the separator, the thrashing machine, and one on the steam engine, and then one who handled the water for the steam engine, water monkey, we used to call him.
And a fourth one, one who ran the elevator to take the grain to the, or to the grainery and get it into the bins.
And this was a social event, one of the big social events of the whole community.
You go from one farm to the next.
And how long did it take?
A couple weeks usually?
Probably closer to three weeks or a month, depending on the weather, of course.
Three weeks, I would say.
And as you would move, of course, these were long days.
And the women were involved also.
It used to be kind of a competition to see who could put up the best food.
two or three kinds of meat and all kinds of vegetables and two or three kinds of pies.
The only sad part of it was this was for noon, and once you eat all of this good food, it was miserable to go out there in the heat and start working again.
When you want to take a nap.
Right.
But it was a good cohesive force to keep the community together.
Once that disappeared,
and the individual farm combines came into being.
You lost a lot of that community spirit.
We used to have- The technology and the impact on society.
Right.
We saw some of the same early in filling silo, where a number of neighbors would buy one silage cutter and exchange work in order to
telescope the time to fill that silo in a day or a day and a half.
And then you would move from one farm to the next.
But it was never quite the same as the thrashing operation which involved more farmers because you had to have bigger crew.
And by the time the silo filling came along, there was more machinery also.
It wasn't
There weren't the same number of farmers involved.
Did the women ever get out in the fields of the mountains?
Some of them.
Who were they?
Oh, one of my aunts was very good.
She liked to be out there, drive tractors and whatnot, the early days of the tractor.
And quite a few of the, not too many, but of my father's generation, there were always a few who liked to be out in the field.
driving tractors, sometimes.
Why do men think of these women?
Never heard much criticism.
They thought it was too hard for the woman physically.
But there were those free spirits at that time too.
And one aunt, one of my favorite aunts, she was out there, she just passed away about two or three years ago.
He was always very active.
And the other ones that would stay in,
And prepare the meals.
Prepare the meals, and during the threshing time, they would bring up the cattle.
Oh, sure, they used to have to handle all of the washing.
Going back to my grandmother's generation when I was still under the grand parental rule, I remember how all of that used to go, the washing, and every day, filling with all the kerosene lamps.
I used to help my grandmother.
certain time in the afternoon after school.
You'd get all of the lamps, whatever they were, eight or ten of them, take them out on the back porch, trim off the wicks, clean up the, take the soot out of the inside of the chimneys, glass chimneys, fill them with kerosene, put them back in their proper places.
In the spring of the year, of course, in butchering time, smoked the meat, especially the ham.
Then we used to
She always used to make the soap, save all the fat.
From the winter and in the spring of the year, cook this all in a big steel kettle, melt this, make it into laundry soap.
Canning season was fascinating to me.
You used to grow your own garden stuff, everything from strawberries and peas.
beans, a whole gamut of things, cold pack, you know, cut them up, put them into mason jars, glass jars, and the salt or whatever you put with it.
Put them into big boilers with the rubber.
And get them up to the temperature to sterilize them and then turn the thing down, tip them up to make sure it wasn't leaking.
That was the standard procedure.
I remember- We still do that.
Sure, and I remember, especially in corn, at a certain time of the year we didn't have sweet corn at that time, it was just field corn.
Yeah.
Dad would say, come on, it's time to go out there and we'd go out in the field and pick off two or three sacks of corn and come in and everybody would be cutting it off the ears, cold pack, the same way on meat because we didn't have any refrigeration.
There's no refrigeration out in those little farms, no electric light.
Right, right.
Well, we're going to get to all the technological advances, but I wanted to move back for a minute.
I want to talk about your mother.
We talked about the character of your father, but we really haven't thought much about her.
We said that she went to eighth grade.
Yeah.
And did she have any other education?
Somewhere along the line she took, and I don't remember where, she was a pretty good seamstress.
She did all the sewing.
She was beautiful seamstress for my two sisters, my sisters especially.
She used to make all her clothes and a lot of her own clothes, and she was very good at it.
And somewhere along the way, she went to whatever it was called, dressmakers school of some kind in Decorah, I guess, which is the little town where Luther College is.
So she was very good at this.
and liked to do it.
Very soft-spoke, very kind, always concerned also whether you're getting along or right.
Even after I'd gone to the university, she'd always worry.
So in that respect, she was, I think, quite sensitive.
Was she very religious?
Yes.
Both of them lived on, my father died in 1972.
When I, unfortunately, about a year before I got the Nobel award, he lost his mental capacities.
And when he found out about it, and he was blind also, he had glaucoma.
He lost one, he lost the sight on one eye when he was 36, before anything much was known about glaucoma.
And then he had had tremendous trouble with stomach ulcers from among my earliest recollections.
He nearly bled to that from hemorrhage when I was probably five or six years old.
And the doctor told him he'd have to quit smoking.
So he quit, whatever it was, 18 or 20 years.
He never started again.
But he would have troubles.
with stomach ulcers periodically, sometimes bleeding ulcers, and once after I was in Mexico, he was having more and more of this kind of trouble.
I took him to Mayo Clinic and went through and they decided that there had to be something real bad in there and they wanted to, and so they operated.
They found that sometime way back,
40 years before, he'd had one of those bleeding ulcers, and apparently part of the intestine had grown right onto the wall of the body cavity.
So when he'd lift, he'd pull that thing loose.
So that was the explanation.
So they operated, and he never had any more trouble with this.
But at the same time, when he went in, I said, look, better examine those eyes also, because he had lost the sight.
and he had glaucoma on this one.
The other eye was still fairly good.
They kept quite a bit of that vision for a long time, but Dad, as I told you, liked to read, but little by little he was losing this.
And I should have said that my mother couldn't walk for about the last
20 years of her life because of arthritis her hands and her knees and her feet were all miserably just miserable from that standpoint and she tried to keep house the best she could my dad had to do most of it most of the land they rented out by them but dad preferred to live on the farm which I think was right for her because it was home and he did most of the work and then he had a little stroke and
So I arranged that they could move into the Evans home, which is one of the prides of this little town of Cresco.
It's money that was left by one of the rather wealthy people to establish this home for the elderly.
It looks like a motel rather than an elderly home with good service and care.
And so they both moved in there.
And probably, I don't remember the year, but maybe
in 65, 64, somewhere in there.
And when the Nobel award came, and Father was alert, and I think one thing that led to his problem was that when he couldn't read anymore, I think that sort of left him lots of frustration.
And then he lost his, just a year before
the Nobel award, he lost his mental capacity.
I remember when I came up there, there was a big hullabaloo.
My mother was invalid, but she was mentally right up to the day she died.
She was very alert mentally.
And my father said, Norman, I understand there's something big going on around here, but I don't understand it.
And that's as close as I could ever get to making him understand.
Did your mother?
Oh, yes, she was tremendously satisfied and happy.
My father died about a year later.
Did you take them more for the presentation?
No, they were neither able to go.
I took my two sisters and this is my wife and my son and daughter.
I was wondering about... And as you know, the Peace Prize is given the same hour as the rest of the prizes, and it's in Oslo while the others are in Stockholm.
I suppose you knew that.
Most people don't you.
No, I didn't know that.
It's got an interesting background.
You know, during the time when Alfred Nobel was writing his will, Norway, the foreign policy of Norway was still controlled by
Swedish government.
They had their own parliament, they had everything else except foreign policy was controlled by Stockholm and apparently Alfred Nobel wasn't in agreement on this and he thought that there was Norwegian's complaint had some merit and in his testimony
I don't know when it changed, but in his will, he said he indicated the committees that would select everything from literature to the Carolina Institute and medicine and so on in Sweden.
But he said in the case of the Peace Prize, it will be selected by the Norwegian Institute, which will be of the Nobel Foundation, which will be composed of the five members of the starting of the Congress.
and the director of the institute and one outsider of prominence in the society.
And the result was that all of the awards are given at 10 o'clock on December 10th, the hour of death of Alfred Nobel.
And so if you get the Peace Prize, it's given in the University of Oslo at the same time that all of the other awards are being given in Stockholm.
So you never get a chance to see them.
I didn't know that until I got there.
Now, speaking of the Nobel Prize, you won the prize and you made some tremendous contributions to agriculture.
I was wondering, concerning your parents, how do you think your parents are responsible for that?
I think in a large part, both my parents and especially the rural community in which I grew up, the work ethic was certainly a part of it.
One thing that I've insisted on in the training of thousands of young people is that there can be dignity in the sweat from the human brow and clean soil under the fingernails even when it's done
by the toil of a scientist and this is a fundamental part of my basic upbringing and it's one of the greatest obstacles to improving the agriculture in many of the developing nations.
There has been a great over sophistication that in many cases have come from foreign institutions whether they be
American universities, Canadian, Australian, or Western European or Northern European, foreign students without a background in the soil, on the soil, in the developing nations today.
That was people who grew up in the city who are now telling the farmer, is that what you mean?
Yes, let me go back just a little bit.
In our own time
when our agriculture was developing its scientific technological base, and it's not so long ago, back in 1862 was when the land-grant colleges and universities was established, and then it didn't go very well, so 25 years later when the experiment stations were set up, it was precisely because nothing much was happening here, and that what was being taught to the sons and daughters from the land to make them better farmers and ranchers,
wasn't very effective and so the Hatch Act was passed to establish the experiment stations and then gradually over time it started to produce some data but it didn't come into the jigsaw, pieces of the jigsaw didn't really fit together very rapidly.
It wasn't until about the late 20s when the pieces were there for example in corn but then the economic depression came along and it was chaos.
The banks went broke and the whole upheaval
And so it lay latent, and it wasn't until World War II when the great demand for food brought all of these pieces together.
And then I have a table here that shows that in the period from 1940 to 1980, in the U.S.
the production of the
Most important, food, feed, and fiber crops increased from 252 million metric tons to 610 million in that 40-year period with only an increase of 3% in cultivated area.
This was all application of technology that had gradually been built up over those 80 years.
the normal, the pieces, and then it was put together.
About three times?
And in some crops it was even more.
Corn, corn.
I've got the basic raw materials and I don't have a graph here but I'll give you, remind me, I'll give you a copy of the graph and then I'll give you one of what we did in Mexico and Pakistan.
Oh great, great.
Yeah I want all of this documentary information.
Okay then
This we accept now as the things that make American agriculture great.
And the patterns of development in Western Europe and Sweden and those countries, the UK, pretty much the same.
But many of the third world nations got left behind because they did not develop their science and technology early enough.
And it's a kind of curious picture.
I arrived at conclusions that are quite similar to
that of Michael Novak.
I don't know if you've ever read any of Michael Novak.
He's an economist, philosopher, and a seminarian, a Catholic layman.
Well, he's more than a layman.
He studied in seminary.
He was in Rome for a number of years.
And he wrote a paper about, well, a book on capitalism,
agrarian capitalism and its role in economic and rural development, or words to this effect, that's not the exact title, but one chapter of that is why Latin America is poor, and he points out, he's never lived in Latin America, and he, but it's curious how he and I come to some of the same conclusions, coming down entirely different roads.
He says that at the time of the
establishment colonization of the so-called English colonies and they weren't all English by any means.
The New England ones were largely English but Pennsylvania was Dutch or New Amsterdam was Dutch and Pennsylvania was German and Delaware was Swedish and so it wasn't as pure as it would seem.
And he says at that time
The Latin American countries of today had all the advantage.
The agriculture of the Aztecs, the Incas, and the Mayans were far advanced to anything that the tribes had where the New England colonies arrived.
They knew more about mining and the use of metals.
The climate was better.
They didn't go through the miserable winters.
They didn't have the miserable soils of New England.
We didn't know how to correct the infertility at that time.
Everything was wrong, except I say, here I said it in quite an indirect way, but I say Latin America was born 100 years too soon, 1500 rather than the 1600.
At the time, the Spanish and Portuguese colonies were established.
They superimposed a feudalistic system that was then not only prevalent in Iberia, but
all through Europe.
But in the next hundred years, that feudalistic system was cracking.
Separation of state and church took place, the Reformation.
And by the time the pilgrims and the subsequent colonies came, there was a school on one side and there was a church on the other.
That doesn't mean they weren't good Christians.
But that had a lot to do with who got the education.
Education was for all.
in what became the 13th colony.
Whereas in Latin America, that fuelistic system prevailed and education was for the sons and daughters of the elite, the aristocracy, the big landowners, and it was dished out by the church.
And to me, that is one of the issues in Latin America that has set back development.
And even after independence from Spain, the church still prevailed on
the educational front.
Mexico was the first to break with this in the bloody revolution of 10 to 20 when they broke up all the big haciendas.
And I should point out that in some states such as Puebla, the biggest landowner of all was the church.
And they were also hand in glove with the landed aristocracy.
And that delayed the whole thing.
And then when you start with a population such as Mexico had at that time,
of 18 million, most of them illiterate, and try to catch up.
Then back about the time of Lincoln, Benito Juarez made a real effort to try to get the public school system going, even though this was before this revolution, before the church's grip of the church had been broken.
But when he was out, the friends came in,
And Maximilian took over.
That perpetuated until he was out, and then dictatorship of Diaz was for 25 years that finally led to the blood.
But once you start with that kind of a handicap and the lack of trained people, it's just a disaster to try to catch up.
Now, let's put this in context.
This morning I was giving this class that I'm teaching on international agriculture, a feeling about all of the obstacles to try to provoke change, to introduce a technology.
First to find out what needs to be done.
And it's not just the seed.
It's got to be an integrated approach.
First you've got to find out how to restore the fertility to the soil.
And that depends on what kind of soil.
And there are many kinds of soil.
And which crop.
And that's got to be done largely in plots on farmer's fields, some of it in the experiment station and in laboratory.
Once you change that, the varieties that were grown there under the primitive conditions are no longer useful because they have been selected under these miserable soil conditions.
They have no high yield potential.
And if you fertilize them, they'll grow upright and they'll fall down.
Or worse yet, the crop will grow densely because it's fertilized.
And the diseases will come in and clean it out because they're all susceptible.
Or if you fertilize, if you control, if you ignore the weeds like it used to be before, the weeds will take over the whole thing.
You'll be worse off than you were before.
You've got to move all of the pieces together.
You've got to check this on hundreds of farms.
Then you've got the further job of communicating what needs to be done with the political leaders
Nowadays, with the economists that sit on the right hand of all the politicians.
In my early days in Mexico, we didn't have economists, so you went directly to the minister of agriculture or to the president because it hadn't evolved that far.
Today it's more difficult.
They're sitting there, and I say it in Spanish, I say, tienes que manejar también los que sientan al lado del político que está cortando el queso y repartiendolo.
You've got to deal with that guy that's sitting there cutting up the cheese and passing it out.
Another level in the bureaucracy.
Another level.
And while you're doing all of this other, you've got to get a feel of how all of these pieces fit together, and you've got to know when to play.
Keep a low profile until the crisis is right, and then say, if you do this, the chances are good that this and this and this is likely to happen.
and it's generally when you're faced with a crisis on food, but before it becomes chaotic so that the whole government breaks down.
That's been my experience in Mexico, in Pakistan, in India, in every place.
In Argentina I could never move it.
Now we're going to get it off the ground, even I think even with all the inflation, because there there was never hunger, but now the situation is so chaotic that I think that there's a good chance that
can be put into operation.
You see there's economic, social, and technological that all have to fit together.
Some listening to this would say that you're quite a cynic.
What would you say to them?
No, I'm just a hard-headed realist.
That's exactly what I thought you'd say.
I've worked with this and I know that that's the way progress has been made all down through time.
And I repeat that status quo
comfortable compared to fear of the unknown.
But since there is no status quo, it's a false philosophy, especially with the numbers of people we have in the world today, from a food standpoint alone, forgetting for the moment all of the other issues about housing and education and all of the other things you need for a decent life, looking strictly at food,
status quo when we have 84 million more people each year and where there are hundreds of millions that are inadequately nourished at the present time just won't get the job done and you've got to be a hard-headed realist what can be done at any point in time and I've learned this from 40 years of experience in dealing knowing when to keep a low profile you move too fast
and remember that there's no zero risk in the biological world.
A lot of people forget this.
In these emotional times of ours, like this snafu now on ethylenedidromide, that product has been used for 30 years on many different things.
Life expectancy continues to go up.
It's higher than it ever has been.
Were this
through all that's being put out in the front page now.
Now there may be cases where there may have been damage done, but by and large it's overkill.
And you can look at the other side of it.
What's overkill?
You mean the media's overkill?
Yes.
Okay, but I don't... But some scientists are contributing to making this, and it's hard to separate out how those emotions get into the picture because of special issue lobbying groups.
who don't see the broad picture because you're weighing benefits against risk.
You always are.
Sure.
Now, Alan, you the realist, I want to get back to your parents and why you're the type of person that you are today.
And one of those things that we started this conversation on is work ethic.
Was another one a development of a more of what you would consider a realistic view of life?
I would say yes.
And does that relate, I don't want to put words in your mouth, but does that relate to the fact that you grew up with the soil in your hands?
Yes sir.
Do you want to elaborate on that?
When it comes from the standpoint of how I look at science and technology in agriculture, I stand on a pretty firm fitting soil that I grew up on.
and I learned a lot about the practical application before I ever went to the university.
Then I took a very broad background of experience and I went down a road that was a very improbable one, studied forestry and there I got a picture I got interested in reforestation and water, shed management, erosion control, wildlife, the whole gamut of things.
I handled CCC, civilian conservation work crews, young people, during the worst of the Depression.
WPA, Works Project, Progress Administration, elderly displaced people in public works relating to building roads and parks and managing forests and all of these sorts of things.
And as a result, you get pretty broad understanding.
Then I went back to graduate school, and there are two other people along the way.
But we're going to get to those people, okay?
Okay.
We're going to get to your education, but I want to get back to your parents here.
Because not every kid off the farm in Iowa became a Nobel Prize winner.
Not everyone worked like you did.
So it has to be not just the fact that you're from a farm community, it must be a lot more to deal with your upbringing, wouldn't you say so?
Well, I'm sure it has a great deal to do with this.
And along the way, Granddad also, and my father too, but my father used to speak in a much quieter tone.
There always was the philosophy of doing your best.
But my grandfather would say it bluntly.
My father would say, well, do the best you can.
And I got this brought home to me very strongly by my high school principal and wrestling coach, athletic coach.
and then later we'll go into a university profession.